heard anything about the Parker solar
probe lately what's up with that Parker
solar probe named for Eugene
Parker he is a solar
physicist who back in the
1950s proposed the crazy idea that maybe
the sun is releasing particles from its
surface in the form of what today we
would call the solar wind and these
particles would stream out through the
solar system and collide with planets
possibly generating Earth's Aurora well
how are you going to confirm all this
you can use telescopes but you really
kind of want to go there well that's
hard and dangerous because why the Sun
is hot finally the engineering came to
pass the design and construction of this
remarkable space probe became a reality
the reason why I'm talking about it is
the Parker solar probe just made its
closest approach to the Sun and how
close was that the closest we've ever
sent anything to the Sun Five Sun
diameters away and since the sun has
such a huge gravitational field anything
that flies that close to the Sun its
speed increases from the gravitational
attraction of the Sun and as a result
the Parker solar probe has reached the
highest speed ever for any human-made
craft and hit a top speed of
430,000 M hour so how fast is 430,000 M
hour that's fast by terrestrial
standards but in the universe it amounts
to 61 100ths of
1% of the speed of light so get over it
the point of this is not to show off how
fast it's moving or how high it's become
is to make measurements of the sun to
more deeply understand what we call
solar weather the storms on the sun
release particles into space that
actually have a way of heating the outer
atmosphere of the sun which we call the
corona the corona is what's rendered
visible during a total solar eclipse
it's millions of degrees much hotter
than the sun's surface for reasons that
remain a little bit
mysterious however it's very sparsely
populated by gas molecules how hot would
it feel I don't I don't know if a
particle hits here and then there you're
not bathed in a complete solution of hot
gas if you were in the Corona and it's
likely that you could just survive it
just fine even though it's millions of
degrees what would be much more damaging
to you and devastating is the radiant
heat coming from the surface of the Sun
itself in the Parker solar probe why
doesn't it melt because it's shielded by
the substance the element on the
periodic table that has the very highest
melting point what could it be is it
some metal is it the highest melting
point element on the table by far is
carbon so there's a carbon composite
Shield there rather thick but
nonetheless to protect it from the Sun
it is there always oriented in a way to
Shield the rest of its Electronics to
make the measurements of the magnetic
field the particle flux the whatever
might be the heating mechanism for the
corona it's the sun closeup and personal
and I guess we can say that's touching
the Sun cuz the corona is part of the
sun's full atmospheric structure and
size and shape but when you're told a
probe is touch the Sun what are you
thinking you're probably thinking it's
going to skim the surface of the sun
it's like no that's not it's going to be
five solar diameters away from its
surface little human interest fact that
there's a little memory card that is
flying on this mission that has a photo
of Eugene Parker a file containing his
original paper he published in 1958
making some radical predictions in what
would would become the solar wind as
well as the names of 1.1 million people
people that want a little piece of
themselves their name to participate in
the exploration of the solar system and
in this particular case to kiss the sun
the sun the nearest star in space to
Earth the more we understand it the
better able we will be to accommodate
the idiosyncrasies of the sun's cycle
it's 11 and 22-year cycle uh some of it
remains a bit mysterious to us we're
scared a little bit because explosions
on the sun can send a flux of particles
that will have the power to knock out
much of our orbiting satellites unless
the satellites are electronically
hardened as the expression goes so we
are particularly susceptible in modern
times given how much of our economy and
our national security depends on Space
assets the more we know about space
weather generated by the Sun the better
off we will be and so that's a little
bit of what's up with that
[Music]